##Install NodeJS & npmYou must install NodeJS to start with Cocoons.io.**On Mac with Homebrew**```brew install node```npm will be also installed with the previous command.**On Ubuntu**```sudo add-apt-repository ppa:chris-lea/node.jssudo apt-get updatesudo apt-get install nodejssudo apt-get install npm```**Others alternatives**Others ways to install node.js can be found here : http://nodejs.org/download/.Don't forget to install npm : https://www.npmjs.org/##Install cocoons.io```npm install cocoons.io -g```## Create a new web siteCreate a new directory and initialize the project structure :```mkdir my-webistecd my-websitecocoons create```By default, a Cocoons.io project will have the following directories & files :- **src** : the artifacts of the site : content (html or markdown), images, css, ...- **target** : the generated site will be in this folder.- **templates** : the templates used to transform markdown file into HTML.- **widgets** : widgets are reusable chunks of HTML that can be inserted inside the main content of the page or somewhere else in the template (eg. a sidebar, on the top of the page, ...)- **logs** : log files used for the preview mode & during the site generation process.- There is also a **cocoons.json** file which contains the site parameters.## Review cocoons.jsonOn each project root folder, you have to add a cocoons.json file. This file is added with the command **'cocoons create'**.It contains information on the project and other technical parameters.This json object is also passed to the template engine. You are free to add more parameters or remove some of them that will not be used in the templates.## Add your content into the source folderThe web site content is in the **src** folder.** The usual web content**You can add all kind of content you want (HTML, pdf, images, ...). You can also create subdirectories inside the **src** folder.In this case, the url matches to the different directories (if defined) & the name of the file.**Markdown file**You can also add markdown files which is a very simple solution to use for a content oriented web site.In this case, you have to create 2 different files :- a .md file which match to the name of the page.- a .json file which contains the SEO meta info & other properties. This file will passed to the template engine. You can add all properties you want.If you create your website with the command **"cocoons create"**, see the files : sample-page.md & sample-page.json as example.In the preview mode (see below) and after generating the web site, you can access to this page with the url : sample-page.html.If you need more info on markdown format, please visit this [page](https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/wiki/Markdown-Here-Cheatsheet).## TemplatesBy default, Cocoons.io is using [Jade](http://jade-lang.com/) and [Bootstrap](http://getbootstrap.com/) for the templates.This is mainly used to transform markdown content into HTML. The templates are located in the folder **templates**.Each template can access to 3 different objects:- **page** which contains the page properties defined in its json file (eg. : page.properties.title).- **config**  which contains the properties defined in the cocoons.json- **widget** (only for a widget template), by using this object, you can access to its properties as specified in the cocoons.json file.You can use any kind of template engine that is supported by [Express](http://expressjs.com/).In this case, you have to change the property **templateEngine** into the file cocoons.json (in theory, not yet tested ;-) )## MenuMenus can be defined in the cocoons.io file. This is a usual json structure send to the template via the config object (see above).By default, there is only one main menu but it should be possible to add other menus in the cocoons.io file.  The menu management will maybe change in the upcoming months.## Widgets### Template widgetsA widget is a chunk of HTML code that can be inserted into a template region like a sidebar or before the main content.This is useful to include ads or generic info like a list of links on all pages. This can be also used to insert scripts into the pages like the Google Analytics script.This is quite similar to the widget concept in Wordpress.Using widgets with cocoons.io is quite simple. It require the following steps :- Create a template for the widget into the folder **widget**. It could be HTML code or a jade template. There are some examples in the default web site.- Specify in which region you want to display the widget. This can be done in the cocoons.io file. If you create a new web site with the command **cocoons.io create**, you will have default config in the file cocoons.io.### Markdown content widgetsMarkdown are very nice to produce content quickly thanks to its content tags. Unfortunately, this is not very useful to specify the content of complex widgets like a slideshow, a call to action box, ...In cocoons.io, it is possible to insert widgets into the main content by using simple tags.>This is section is not well documented because this feature is under development.## Run the preview modeThe preview mode is useful when you have many changes to do (templates, content, ...) before generating the complete web site.You can start the preview mode with the following command line :```cocoons preview```Now, from your browser, you can access to the site with the url :```http://localhost:8080```You can change the port number in the cocoons.json file.##Generate the siteWhen the content has been published into the project structure, you can generate the complete web site with the command line :```cocoons generate```The complete web site will be present in the folder **target**. You can change the target folder in the cocoons.json file.Please, tell us what you like or not ! Thanks for reading !